okay says recording now third time's a
charm
welcome to the package managers weekly
sync for April 23rd 2019 I am Andrew
hosting standing in for aching brain
this week who is not here for whatever
reason and so we're going to go around
to do any updates that people have
related to the package managers working
group stuff I'll start off I've been
writing up a kind of a narrative
document almost like a very long blog
post of how ipfs concepts map onto
existing package manager concepts with
the specific focus of being able to kind
of give that to a package manager
maintainer and have them kind of onboard
themselves into how I can start to step
there package manager into the word of
ipfs so it's not a kind of complete
here's how to build a decentralized
package manager on ipfs but it's more
how to augment your existing package
manager with ipfs whilst learning about
the different kind of pieces of
technology they're involved like IP n s
IP LD and similar kind of steps
especially thinking about it as like
okay well how does someone go about
publishing their first package and then
how do you index the number of different
versions for a package then how do you
kind of keep track of a number of
different packages and how that maps
with the existing ways that package
managers work so that's the link is in
that the notes it's an ongoing Google
Doc that I had to kind of start to get
some feedback on soon also had a
informal package manager to meet up in
London with Eric Holly and Alex and we
talked about a number of performance
problems and potential ways of negating
some of that as well as an interesting
discussion around
MPM it has the ability now in the client
to specify package releases before a
given date as a way of kind of avoiding
like almost not requiring a lock file by
saying I only want package releases
before a given date but it actually
happens on the client not on the server
so if the data and the server changes
say a package gets yanked then that will
or it still asks a server for everything
and the client just decides it only
wants a subset of what it gets back
whereas what we could do with NPM on
ipfs is actually pass through a CID of a
root of the EMFs drive on our npm bridge
free copy which would give you a
snapshot in time of the whole of the
registry so that even if something gets
deleted later date you'd still be able
to rollback and ensure that you've got
some amount of reproducibility I also
started looking into how we could add
ipfs support to the Athens project which
is a proxy service for go package
management as in Rev you would point
your your go modules configuration at an
Athens server which would cash or serve
straight from cache the modules revenue
going out to many different git
repositories across github mostly works
for both private and public things and
has a really nice interface for building
storage adapters which we could
potentially build an IP FS storage
adapter it's written and go so there's
quite a lot of crossover with go ipfs
there and could be another way of
reintroducing storing package content on
ipfs for the for the go
projects in ipfs and other in protocol
labs now that GX has kind of been
abandoned so it looks to me like there's
a quite a happy path to get there fairly
quickly and to actually kind of propose
that I was part of one of the they have
a weekly call so I might dive in there
and see how a mean will they be to
adding that as support um
not blocked anything and next I'll be
carrying on with the documenting that
I've been doing so far
just kidding again so I was away for
much last week at DPLA fest
held a workshop there not specifically
package manager related but was really
useful for onboarding black done nothing
so next steps I just really sort of um
need to formalize my actual work plan or
have some chats about that this week and
just get some stuff set up I know some
things are on my radar where issues 41
42 the first of which is documenting the
stages and the types of package managers
and then also the feedback loop between
users and core Dems need to dig a little
bit deeper into that to see how I can be
useful in each of those issues and then
also just want to keep the discussion
Eliab about progressive UX for sort of a
menu bar at versus I pick us desktop for
where we might want to live with with
the actual visual feedback for for
package managers and then also maybe
dive a little bit into command line
messaging as well I know that pour
should put together our best practices
for that elsewhere um so we can
definitely borrow from that but just
want to make sure that that doesn't fall
off for now if if anything feels amiss
or feels like I'm going in the wrong
direction please like you know because
I'm still sort of you know finding my
way
Eric join again
um yeah sure I don't know if I have a
ton to comment on oh yeah we had a
lovely chat in London I would still so I
always kind of had the same wish list
and it's like let's try to figure out
some more like some simple bullet points
of like how to categorize these things
and so this week thanks in large part a
conversation with Andrew I'm doing a
have a draft of like a cladistic tree of
different levels of integration choices
that we could make with ipfs with
package managers and so like branch one
and this is trying to make it just like
you know did you ever do like a high
school biology textbook where you're
trying like what kind of an organism is
this and it has like yes/no questions
does it have fins you know so this is
trying to get on to that level and make
it super explicit like does this use
ipfs at all yes no does it does it use
ipfs to store raw cones and all the
leaves and like does that the cid
actually show up in the index and then
increasingly deep into this and so it
ended up being a very kind of like
right-leaning tree for deeper
integration as I keep saying yes so that
was I guess a simpler structure than I
expected and at the bottom it kind of
opens up into uncharted territory so I
was initially unsure if yeah I was
initially unsure if this would be worth
sharing publicly or not because it gets
to that uncharted territory at the end
but I guess the feedback I'm getting
from folks so far as like yes if we
should super share that so I guess
that'll be showing up in an issue later
today or something other no where else
to put it
that's that's my item why would you want
to ask things yeah
one thing is I had a quick
twitter twitter conversation I think you
know
the folks working on wasps mer which is
kind of a new awesome package manager
which I believe is releasing today
tomorrow imminently which is exciting
and one of the things on their road map
is ipfs integration so I've scheduled a
chat kind of with them as you know a
group of package manger users who want
to learn more about how they can use IP
FS for package managers with this group
because it's also super edifying for us
to talk to people who are trying to use
this and like have prioritized this
somewhat on their own to figure out like
how we can best serve their needs what
their pain points have been so far and
stuff like that
and so I'm tentatively trying to
schedule that for Thursday morning if so
far I think I just put the package
manager working group email list in in
the email thread but if anyone
I'll try to make sure that you get
looped into the meeting to chat more
about exactly how they foresee
themselves using IP FS which of your
logistic tree leaves that they are
interested in pursuing so far I also had
a super long chat with Steven last night
out different potentially valuable tools
built on top of IP FS for different
types of package managers that are like
seem to be feasible and invaluable in
the near term and this is kind of what
the goal of how how do we work with
other partners in the ecosystem who are
already trying to you know demonstrate
value where we could add additional
value or meet an unserved need that some
group of users is having with package
managers which eventually hopefully will
have things like reliable default
adoption that can really be stress
testing idea best every single time they
use it and we had kind of like three
top-level ideas one was chatting more
with the cloud player folks about CDM
Jas and finding a way to more
effectively be a a cash flow near a
local mirror for things like CD MJS so
that when you're loading websites you
kind of only install these like really
common jeaious scripts once and then
every website you visit that uses the
same jquery thing can grab it from ipfs
instead of reloading it from CloudFlare
another one was thinking about linux
distros where you have really crappy
internet where you're trying to like
pass upon two mirrors from machine to
machine because when two mirrors are
very large and therefore the cost of
running and ipfs node would be much
smaller than having to load every open
to mirror separately and the finally was
the other one was not Linux but Windows
and chocolaty which I think he's already
commented a few times on the package
managers repo about some you know kind
of where things are and Andrew I know
you did a little bit of an analysis of
where chocolaty would be
but definitely a big thing for that one
is since Windows computers are personal
it would be natural bristle and stuff
like that well we're just we're just
brainstorming so we want to make sure
that the outputs of our brainstorm you
know continue percolating outwards for
the next set of rainstorms
cool yeah so I also would stumbled
across another Windows chocolaty like
package manager today called scoop it
looks a lot like homebrew whereas
chocolaty looks a lot like nougat the
windows.net package manager both of them
work in a kind of a bit of a meta way in
that they're they really provide the
package manager itself and it's registry
is really a set of install scripts which
include a URL to go fetch the actual
binary from somewhere else which may or
may not continue to be present so in the
same way that homebrew does
although homebrew now is is moving
towards more caching or like publishing
the resulting binary of building a
source code into their own
infrastructure which is bin tray right
now and these like chocolaty actually
sells the like slightly more reliable
version as their pro version so they're
unlikely to want to kind of undermine
their own business model by having
everything automatically go out to ipfs
but there's also like questions around
that storing the the binaries for
private or like non open source
applications on ipfs may rattle some
cages but those binaries are free to
download from those websites it's just
that you may have to go through like a
privacy policy or similar before you've
actually like agreed to download it so
a gray area I guess and maybe it would
be more of an opt-in individual packages
further like to enable that ipfs cash
rather then rather than just try and
like wholesale archive the whole of
every Windows binary for random
proprietary packages or applications is
there any other points that people want
to bring up umm maybe Chris as you're
new here sure yeah I mean I guess I
should let you all know I'm applying for
the Jas core technical manager position
right now super excited about what
protocol Labs is doing I'm joining this
meeting mostly because I have a little
bit of an itch to scratch about identity
and I'm curious how it fits in the
package manager world so in a nutshell
what I'm thinking about with identity is
really if you think about the design
space there's kind of like three kinds
of identity there's personal identity
which is what you know is actually the
real thing then there's like your
verifiable stuff which is I think of
like yours you know to factor in like
whatever those practices are
what's enough and that's derived
identity which is like what your ISP
knows about you whether or not you want
them to and so I kind of think that if
we build tools for instance if we built
a tool that made the history of the
Debian package repo transparent as far
as like oh like that's weird there's a
that one signature didn't validate like
we're taking a closer look at that one
or oh the change my trainers on that
package there so I kind of red yellow
green for different states in the graph
just those kind of tools if you built
them out for package managers would be
incredibly useful in that domain but I
think they would also transfer
horizontally to the kind of thing that
could help end-users understand like
what third parties are processing about
them and whatnot
so I don't know that's kind of that's
what I think is fun about this stuff
right now yeah there's some kind of
gaping chasms as well between especially
when it comes to kind of reproducibility
and the chain of verification of like we
look at github repositories and they say
like oh if this release was published
and then there's like a jump this
happened it's usually happened on
someone's laptop arbitrarily and then
there's a package on NPM or Ruby gems
and there's no guarantee of anything
between those two places other than like
can if I can run the same script and end
up with the same package that people
will often and even this applications
dependable and greenkeeper will often
reference the change log for a new
package has been published but when they
automatically open a pull request to say
like oh there's a new update for this
thing they reference the data that they
got from github not from the actual diff
of the between the published packages on
the package manager because the data is
lossy in that all of the history of the
changes that went through and the change
log may not exist inside the package
whereas it does exist on github so they
just hope and dream that the there was
no one made any changes along the way
and it becomes very difficult to kind of
to be sure of what happened there or if
the same person did the same thing
because most registries don't really
give you that kind of log of what
happened on behind the scenes they
really only give you the the end result
and then there's like the actual work
the reproducible builds project is
putting in that Eric can definitely talk
more about
yeah I guess my my take on that stuff is
that you can try to use validation to
enforce everything is perfect but like
you're still gonna get weird slip-ups
that get into the system in the history
or somehow when the validation is not
active or whatever and so the approach
that's necessary it's kind of like
similar to that derived identity
approach is to look at what's actually
there and then give people Road feel for
like again I kind of red yellow green
for the different parts of my graph so
that as a developer you can know whether
you're getting into a tangled mess or if
some part of your dependency chain is
relatively clean I don't know if we've
talked about that very much in this
group yet because a lot of our focus has
been on like more directly how we start
conversations about content
addressability even for places that
don't have that yet because god knows
it's too many but I think that's a
really an awesome whole range of
conversations another keyword that might
be a good search term in case you
haven't stumbled upon it by luck is
binary transparency sort of like
certificate transparency I don't know if
that terms being used super actively
anymore but there's a couple like
mailing lists and archives that have
discussed that topic a little bit it
sounds like you've thought about this
similarity that maybe everything in
there will be old hat to you but oh I've
thought about you know the breadth of it
I think I remember going to one
conference talk from somebody who was
trying to build a new package manager
that was all signed
you know Turtles all the way down but
you know that's the idea but you can't
validate everything and you can't um
can't clean up history just get a note
note what's going on there some of the
interesting things that I think we've
can say we've discovered in this group
is also that putting putting like naming
stuff on too early in the design or to
to centrally can get really weird
because like we're all here because we
have content addressable content and
then like ideally we would love to have
like content addressable indices and
immutable metadata for stuff like that
which is a little bit more of an
exercise
because it's just more into like
Canyonlands for the people Ethiopia's
systems historically making that
composable is like wish for sure yeah I
mean right except for the ever the
brightest minds of our generation
they're doing it to sell ads yeah so if
you have a bunch of thoughts about how
different forms and identity could be
related to packaging stuff and you've
got like some fire in your heart to
write about it do it yeah I mean I was
looking at there's a I think I know
where the right place to file issues
like that is I saw kind of some idea
brainstorming and one of the repos for
packaged stuff
yeah the package managers repository is
a great place to just to open up issues
and with like discussion areas or like
pointers to like here's something
interesting hopefully to get a kind of a
collection of everything that might be
related to ipfs and package managers
whether it's short-term or whether it's
really long-term it's all like a good
kind of mixing pot tip to throw stuff in
we haven't really started talking about
different forms of identity the other
thing that springs to mind there and
it's something that technically I can't
do any work on until July because of a
non-compete um is in solving some of the
chain of or like the kind of the ability
to to kind of archive your way back and
work out what's going on and highlight
points that are like and not so
trustworthy or this is weird um is the
kind of due diligence and security and
licensing around open source that
companies open themselves up to all
kinds of risk and actually being able to
kind of to
raise red flags for companies and go hey
did you realize like the somewhere along
the chain of this there was a
relicensing from a GPL project to a MIT
project that shouldn't have happened and
like if the original person finds that
out then they can like bounce all the
way back up the chain and your
proprietary software that is built on
top of GPL software potentially then
gets into all kinds of mess and
companies are aware of the risks and are
very oh hello bloom what do
sorry zooms just telling me I've got
three minutes for some reason companies
are quite like that they value the risk
assessment enough to actually pay for
tooling to be able to to do that it's
just that the data going into it is
really crappy and companies tend to hold
whatever quality data they can get
rather than sharing that back out and
really that data should be like part of
the open-source project if it's been
collected around that it should be like
it was based off the Commons it should
be available in the in the Commons of
that project in a
of a continual way but I think we have
run out of time that's the end of the
slot so thanks everyone for coming and
we'll see you again next week
thank you stop recording now